[IMP] Users: Enforce two-factor authentication (#10237)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/users/2fa.rst

=========================
Two-factor authentication
=========================

.. |2fa| replace:: :abbr:`2FA (two-factor authentication)`
.. |QR| replace:: :abbr:`QR (Quick Response)` code

> Two-factor authentication (2FA) is a good way to improve security, and to prevent unauthorized
> persons from accessing user accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Two-factor authentication (2FA)* is a way to improve security, and prevent unauthorized
persons from accessing user accounts.
```
suggesting the use of italics here because this sentence reads like a definition...which we typically format with italics surrounding the main term.
Also, opted to remove "good" to avoid any editorializing

> Two-factor authentication (2FA) is a good way to improve security, and to make it less likely that
> any other person can access the account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two-factor authentication (2FA) is a good way to improve security, and to prevent unauthorized persons
from accessing user accounts.
```

> Two-factor authentication (2FA) is a good way to improve security, and to make it less likely that
> any other person can access the account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two-factor authentication (2FA) is a good way to improve security, and to prevent unauthorized persons
from accessing user accounts.
```

> Practically, it means storing a secret inside an *authenticator*, usually on a mobile phone, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Practically, |2fa| means storing a secret inside an *authenticator*, usually on a mobile phone, and
```

exchanging a code from the authenticator when trying to log in.

> This means an attacker needs to have guessed the account password *and* to access the authenticator,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means an attacker needs to guess the account password *and* have access to the authenticator,
```

> This means an attacker needs to guess the account password *and* have access to the authenticator,
> a more difficult proposition than either one or the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means an unauthorized user would need to guess the account password *and* have access to the authenticator,
which is a more difficult proposition than either one or the other.
```

Requirements
============

.. important::

>    These lists are just examples, they are not endorsements of any specific software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   These lists are just examples. They are **not** endorsements of any specific software.
```

Phone-based authenticators are the easiest and most commonly used. Examples include:

- `Authy <https://authy.com/>`_
- `FreeOTP <https://freeotp.github.io/>`_
- `Google Authenticator <https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/1066447?hl=en>`_
- `LastPass Authenticator <https://lastpass.com/auth/>`_
- `Microsoft Authenticator
  <https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/account/authenticator?cmp=h66ftb_42hbak>`_

Password managers are another option. Common examples include:
- `1Password <https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/>`_
- `Bitwarden <https://bitwarden.com/help/article/authenticator-keys/>`_,

.. note::
   The remainder of this document uses Google Authenticator as an example, as it is one of the most

>    commonly used. This is not an endorsement of the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   commonly used. This is **not** an endorsement of the product.
```

> Setting up two-factor authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two-factor authentication setup
```
this suggestion is based on the guidance we were given in the past to avoid using "-ing" words in headers...

ALT: Two-factor authentication configuration

====================================

> After selecting an authenticator, log in to Odoo, then navigate to :menuselection:`My Profile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After selecting an authenticator, log in to Odoo, then click the profile avatar in the upper-right corner, and select :guilabel:`My Profile` from the resulting drop-down menu.
```
SUGGESTION: just to add some more specific directions about how to access the My Profile page... 
a supplemental screenshot of this could also be beneficial, but it's totally your call 👍

> After selecting an authenticator log in to Odoo, then navigate to :menuselection:`My Profile`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After selecting an authenticator, log in to Odoo, then navigate to :menuselection:`My Profile`.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Account Security` tab, then slide the :guilabel:`Two-Factor Authentication`
toggle to *active*.

.. figure:: 2fa/account-security.png
   :align: center

This generates a :guilabel:`Security Control` pop-up window that requires password confirmation to

> continue. Then, a :guilabel:`Two-Factor Authentication Activation` pop-up window appears, with a
> |QR|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue. Enter the appropriate password, then click :guilabel:`Confirm Password. Next, a :guilabel:`Two-Factor Authentication Activation` pop-up window appears, with a |QR|.
```

.. figure:: 2fa/qr-code.png
   :align: center

Using the desired authenticator application, scan the |QR| when prompted.

.. note::

>    If scanning the screen is not possible (e.g., because the set-up is being completed on the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If scanning the screen is not possible (e.g. the setup is being completed on the *same*
```
here's my reasoning behind this suggestion:

'Set up' (two words) is a verb phrase, meaning it describes an action. For example, 'I will set up the computer.' 

'Setup' (one word) is a noun or an adjective, referring to a particular arrangement or configuration. For example, you might say "the setup of the computer is easy" or "this PC's setup is rather odd"

>    device as the authenticator application), clicking the provided link or copying the secret to
>    manually set up the authenticator is an alternative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   device as the authenticator application), clicking the provided :guilabel:`Cannot scan it?` link, or copying the secret to
   manually set up the authenticator, is an alternative.
```

   .. figure:: 2fa/secret-visible.png
      :align: center

   .. figure:: 2fa/input-secret.png
      :align: center

Afterwards, the authenticator should display a *verification code*.

.. figure:: 2fa/authenticator.png
   :align: center

Enter the code into the :guilabel:`Verification Code` field, then click :guilabel:`Activate`.

.. figure:: 2fa/2fa-enabled.png
   :align: center

Logging in
==========

> To confirm |2fa| setup is complete, log-out of Odoo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm |2fa| setup is complete, log out of Odoo.
```

On the login page, input the username and password, then click :guilabel:`Log in`. On the
:guilabel:`Two-factor Authentication` page, input the code provided by the chosen authenticator in
the :guilabel:`Authentication Code` field, then click :guilabel:`Log in`.

.. image:: 2fa/2fa-login.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The login page with 2fa enabled.

.. danger::

>    If a user loses access to their authenticator, an administrator must deactivate |2fa| on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If a user loses access to their authenticator, an administrator **must** deactivate |2fa| on the
```

   account before the user can login.

Enforce two-factor authentication
=================================

To enforce the use of |2fa| for all users, first navigate to :menuselection:`Main Odoo Dashboard -->
Apps`. Remove the :guilabel:`Apps` filter from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, then search for `2FA
by mail`.

Click :guilabel:`Install` on the Kanban card for the :guilabel:`2FA by mail` module.

.. image:: 2fa/2FA-by-mail.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The 2FA by mail module in the Apps directory.

> After installation is complete, go to :guilabel:`Settings: Permissions`. Tick the checkbox labeled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation is complete, go to :guilabel:`Settings app: Permissions`. Tick the checkbox labeled,
```

:guilabel:`Enforce two-factor authentication`. Then, use the radio buttons to choose whether to
apply this setting to :guilabel:`Employees only`, or :guilabel:`All users`.

.. note::

>    Selecting :guilabel:`All users` applies the setting to portal users in addition to employees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Selecting :guilabel:`All users` applies the setting to portal users, in addition to employees.
```

=========================
Two-factor authentication
=========================

.. |2fa| replace:: :abbr:`2FA (two-factor authentication)`
.. |QR| replace:: :abbr:`QR (Quick Response)` code

*Two-factor authentication (2FA)* is a way to improve security, and prevent unauthorized persons
from accessing user accounts.

Practically, |2fa| means storing a secret inside an *authenticator*, usually on a mobile phone, and
exchanging a code from the authenticator when trying to log in.

This means an unauthorized user would need to guess the account password *and* have access to the

> authenticator, which is a more difficult proposition than either one or the other.

Reviewer 3: Wording at the end is strange?
```suggestion
authenticator, which is a more difficult proposition.
```

Requirements
============

.. important::
   These lists are just examples. They are **not** endorsements of any specific software.

Phone-based authenticators are the easiest and most commonly used. Examples include:

- `Authy <https://authy.com/>`_
- `FreeOTP <https://freeotp.github.io/>`_
- `Google Authenticator <https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/1066447?hl=en>`_
- `LastPass Authenticator <https://lastpass.com/auth/>`_
- `Microsoft Authenticator
  <https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/account/authenticator?cmp=h66ftb_42hbak>`_

Password managers are another option. Common examples include:

> - `1Password <https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/>`_

Reviewer 3: Need a line break here the list isn't rendering correctly
```suggestion

- `1Password <https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/>`_
```

- `Bitwarden <https://bitwarden.com/help/article/authenticator-keys/>`_,

.. note::
   The remainder of this document uses Google Authenticator as an example, as it is one of the most
   commonly used. This is **not** an endorsement of the product.

Two-factor authentication setup
===============================

After selecting an authenticator, log in to Odoo, then click the profile avatar in the upper-right
corner, and select :guilabel:`My Profile` from the resulting drop-down menu.

Click the :guilabel:`Account Security` tab, then slide the :guilabel:`Two-Factor Authentication`
toggle to *active*.

.. figure:: 2fa/account-security.png
   :align: center

This generates a :guilabel:`Security Control` pop-up window that requires password confirmation to
continue. Enter the appropriate password, then click :guilabel:`Confirm Password`. Next, a
:guilabel:`Two-Factor Authentication Activation` pop-up window appears, with a |QR|.

.. figure:: 2fa/qr-code.png
   :align: center

Using the desired authenticator application, scan the |QR| when prompted.

> .. note::

Reviewer 3: think this is better as a tip
```suggestion
.. tip::
```

   device as the authenticator application), clicking the provided :guilabel:`Cannot scan it?` link,
   or copying the secret to manually set up the authenticator, is an alternative.

   .. figure:: 2fa/secret-visible.png
      :align: center

   .. figure:: 2fa/input-secret.png
      :align: center

Afterwards, the authenticator should display a *verification code*.

.. figure:: 2fa/authenticator.png
   :align: center

Enter the code into the :guilabel:`Verification Code` field, then click :guilabel:`Activate`.

.. figure:: 2fa/2fa-enabled.png
   :align: center

Logging in
==========

To confirm |2fa| setup is complete, log out of Odoo.

On the login page, input the username and password, then click :guilabel:`Log in`. On the
:guilabel:`Two-factor Authentication` page, input the code provided by the chosen authenticator in
the :guilabel:`Authentication Code` field, then click :guilabel:`Log in`.

.. image:: 2fa/2fa-login.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The login page with 2fa enabled.

.. danger::
   If a user loses access to their authenticator, an administrator **must** deactivate |2fa| on the

>    account before the user can login.

Reviewer 3: login = noun
log in = verb
```suggestion
   account before the user can log in.
```
